README.md, before:

# Project Journal.kim

> "It gets easier. Every day it gets a little easier. But you gotta do it every day, that’s the hard part. But it does get easier." —Bojack Horseman

This project is indended for me to provide weekly updates regarding my goals (systems) that I currently have on a website called [Beeminder](https://beeminder.com). Powered by Jekyll!

I’ve decided to begin this meta-accountability experiement, where I’ll report my progress with my goals on this website weekly, in collaboration with [my account](https://beeminder.com/brennanbrown) on Beeminder. I hope that this extra push of consistent reporting will help me succeed with my goals and stick to good habits.

## For further reading

- [The Tao of Bees: How I use Beeminder](https://blog.beeminder.com/tao/)
- [The Sting of Work: How I Use Beeminder, Part Two](https://blog.beeminder.com/tao2/)
- [Goal Failure: A post-capitalist critique on boiling frogs, minimum-happiness, harmful-easy things, and lists.](https://medium.com/@brennanbrown/goal-failure-bc3a39a0f418)
- [Goal Success: Getting back on your horse, no matter how many times you’ve fallen off.](https://medium.com/@brennanbrown/5-good-goals-ideas-and-why-86caddb33e70)
- **New!** [Tracking Every Aspect of My Life for a Year: Success with Beeminder](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/tracking-every-aspect-my-life-year-brennan-kenneth-brown/)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Jekyll requires the following:

- Ruby version **2.5.0** or higher
- RubyGems
- GCC and Make

See [Requirements](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/#requirements) for guides and details.

### Instructions

1. Install all [prerequisites](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).
2. Install the jekyll and bundler [gems](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/ruby-101/#gems).

```bash
gem install jekyll bundler
```

3. Clone this repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/brennanbrown/journalbar.git
```

4. Change into your new directory.

```bash
cd journalbar
```

5. Install gems from the `Gemfile`.

```bash
bundle install
```

5. Build the site and make it available on a local server.

```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

6. Browse to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

> Pass the `--livereload` option to `serve` to automatically refresh the page with each change you make to the source files: `bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload`

If you encounter any errors during this process, check that you have installed all the prerequisites in [Requirements](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/#requirements).
If you still have issues, see [Troubleshooting](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/troubleshooting/#configuration-problems).

## Credit

Original Jekyll theme [Watery](https://github.com/brennanbrown/watery) and CSS styles from [Writ.css](https://writ.cmcenroe.me/).

Commit message:

Add documentation: metrics analysis and resume entry template

README.md, after:

# Project Journal.kim

> "It gets easier. Every day it gets a little easier. But you gotta do it every day, that’s the hard part. But it does get easier." —Bojack Horseman

This project is indended for me to provide weekly updates regarding my goals (systems) that I currently have on a website called [Beeminder](https://beeminder.com). Powered by Jekyll!

I’ve decided to begin this meta-accountability experiement, where I’ll report my progress with my goals on this website weekly, in collaboration with [my account](https://beeminder.com/brennanbrown) on Beeminder. I hope that this extra push of consistent reporting will help me succeed with my goals and stick to good habits.

## For further reading

- [The Tao of Bees: How I use Beeminder](https://blog.beeminder.com/tao/)
- [The Sting of Work: How I Use Beeminder, Part Two](https://blog.beeminder.com/tao2/)
- [Goal Failure: A post-capitalist critique on boiling frogs, minimum-happiness, harmful-easy things, and lists.](https://medium.com/@brennanbrown/goal-failure-bc3a39a0f418)
- [Goal Success: Getting back on your horse, no matter how many times you’ve fallen off.](https://medium.com/@brennanbrown/5-good-goals-ideas-and-why-86caddb33e70)
- **New!** [Tracking Every Aspect of My Life for a Year: Success with Beeminder](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/tracking-every-aspect-my-life-year-brennan-kenneth-brown/)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Jekyll requires the following:

- Ruby version **2.7.0** or higher (3.0+ recommended)
- RubyGems
- GCC and Make

See [Requirements](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/#requirements) for guides and details.

**Note:** This site has been recently updated to Jekyll 4.3.4 with modern dependencies and security improvements.

### Instructions

1. Install all [prerequisites](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).
2. Install the jekyll and bundler [gems](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/ruby-101/#gems).

```bash
gem install jekyll bundler
```

3. Clone this repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/brennanbrown/journalbar.git
```

4. Change into your new directory.

```bash
cd journalbar
```

5. Install gems from the `Gemfile`.

```bash
bundle install
```

5. Build the site and make it available on a local server.

```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

6. Browse to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

> Pass the `--livereload` option to `serve` to automatically refresh the page with each change you make to the source files: `bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload`

If you encounter any errors during this process, check that you have installed all the prerequisites in [Requirements](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/#requirements).
If you still have issues, see [Troubleshooting](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/troubleshooting/#configuration-problems).

## Support This Project

If you find value in this experiment and documentation, consider supporting my work:

- ☕ [Buy me a coffee on Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/brennan)
- ❤️ [Sponsor on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/brennanbrown)

Your support helps me continue creating free resources and tools for the productivity community.

## Credit

Original Jekyll theme [Watery](https://github.com/brennanbrown/watery) and CSS styles from [Writ.css](https://writ.cmcenroe.me/).
