---
layout: post
title: My Daily Routine
tags: [Routines, Habits, Meta]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: routine
comment: true
---

### Morning

* Every morning, I will wake up at 6:00am after going to bed at 9:00pm the night before in order to feel fantastic and have momentum for the day.

* Every morning as soon as I wake up, I will make my bed and read this document, in order to set myself up for a productive day.

* Every morning, after I review my manifesto, I will meditate for 15 minutes on a timer regarding: 
	- Creating a positive mental model of the day
	- Contemplating my beliefs and values
	- Figuring out what needs to be done for both long-term and short-term
	- Being grateful for everything good in my life <br>

* Every morning, after I meditate, I will drink a large glass of cold water that I placed beside me the night before to rehydrate my body.

* Every morning, after I drink the glass of water, I will take a 15 minute cold shower to vitalize myself for the day.

* Every morning, after I shower, I will take 7 minutes to stretch so my body is prepared for the day.

* Every morning, after I stretch, I will eat a healthy breakfast consisting of fibre, protein, and sugarless in order to properly feed and take care of my body.

* Every morning, after I eat breakfast, I will start and complete my morning journal, which consists of:
	- Meta Information: What's the date, time and weather?
	- Goals / To-do: What are you going to focus on today?
	- Meditation: What are you grateful for? How do you feel?
	- Creativity / Poetry: What are your new ideas for today? <br>

* Every morning, after I write my journal, I will review my to-do list for the day that I had written out the night before to be able to understand where I need to prioritize my time and energy.



### Daily Habits

#### Writing

* Write out three goals that I want to accomplish before the day ends to progress in life.

* Write a blog post and publish it online to help progress my writing.

* Write a poem and publish it online to help develop my creativity.


#### Learning

* Learn and study for a few hours to gain new knowledge and skills.

* Read for at least an hour, to expand my mind and understanding of the world.

* Learn a new language, in order to become more cultured and understanding.

* Practice brain games, such as Elevate & Luminosity, in order to maintain neuroplasticity. 


#### Health

* Stand up and move more frequently, not sitting around all day.

* Wander outside for at least thirty minutes to appreciate nature and life.

* Log meals eaten, in order to be eat more healthy and organic.

* Avoid unhealthy eating, including food that is expensive and processed.

* Drink only water and coffee to hydrate my body and avoid frivolous drinks.


#### Wellness

* Seek out inspiration, find motivation for the day and get pumped for how much I can do.

* Focus on positivity, as well as being kinder to others and smiling more often.

* Minimize usage of electronics, as well as the internet, to only what’s needed.

* Play my favorite music, to help brighten my mood and wake up my mind.

* Socialize with friends or strangers, enrich my friend circle with positivity.

* Set START & STOP times for when I want to do certain activities so they’re not everlasting.

* Take time to brainstorm and create new creative ideas for future use.

* Visit the library, to work on projects, or read new books, or to join an event.

* Be mindful of my time and not waste it doing foolish and stupid things.

* Embrace discomfort, do thing that I don’t like doing, don’t make excuses.

* Be frugal and not waste money on things I don’t truly need.

### Evening

* Start this ritual two hours before going to bed, to ensure peace of mind.

* Block distractions, putting my phone on airplane mode and silent.

* Clean and tidy up my surroundings, checking every room.

* Celebrate what went well today, focus on what I’m grateful for.

* Review anything interesting of note that happened in my evening journal.

* Write the to-dos that need to be done tomorrow, to make it easy to remember.

* Meditate on anything that’s causing stress or concern and eliminate the negativity.

* Darken the surroundings, turn off all screens an hour before going to sleep.

* Go to sleep at around 9:00pm in order to have a full night’s rest.