---
layout: post
title: "Fourteen: A Pivot"
tags: [fourteenth-week]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: pivot
comment: true
---

**Week Fourteen!** Everything has been going as idealistically good as it possibly can be. I think one of the (perhaps many) reasons why I've been successful on Beeminder is because of the [Hawthorne Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawthorne_effect), which states that: *individuals modify an aspect of their behavior in response to their awareness of being observed*. 

Merely keeping track of something will improve it, which is why I still kinda wish that Beeminder had agnostic goals with no consequences (aka payments) just for the sake of testing. Seems like a good power-user feature to me.

That all being said, I think I need to begin a **pivot**. As much as I enjoy sharing my thoughts on Beeminder, I feel like I need to start prioritizing other writing. Of course, I'll still be doing my Bee Journal, because I'd most definitely fail if I had enough hubris to think that I could keep being successful without a weekly public update.

I'm not exactly sure what this'll look like yet, I'm guessing these updates will be a lot shorter. I'll still be posting longform pieces to [Journal Bar](https://journal.bar/) But I don't want to constantly be posting off-topic stuff to the Beeminder forum.  

## Systems Update

* [**/spending:**](https://beeminder.com/brennanbrown/spending) As silly as I still think it is to have a punishment of spending too much money be to spend even *more* money, I think it'll be really good in the long-run for me to keep track of my daily expenses manually like this. I also love the presumptive pessimistic approach for manual do-less goals.
* **/blogging:** Got a huge push, I just posted my first [article](https://notebook.casa/24-Be-Noteworthy) in awhile, and I stepped it up to two posts a month *and* weaseled-proofed it. I have to get serious about the goals that are serious to me.