---
title: 'Eleven: Notebook de Casa'
date: 2020-05-13 00:00:00 Z
permalink: notebook
tags:
- eleventh-week
layout: post
author: Brennan Brown
comment: true
---

**Week Eleven!** Man, I've been busy this week. Not entirely related to Beeminder, but using journal.kim/ as inspiration, I've decided to migrate my blog from WordPress to Jekyll and upload the source code to my GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/brennanbrown/blog), with the name [notebook.casa](https://notebook.casa)! 

This is the first time I've built an entire website from scratch without using a template, so I'm pretty proud of myself. Of course, there's a bunch of stuff I need to do, specifically because the [WordPress-to-Jekyll](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jekyll-exporter/) plugin that I used was *kinda* buggy, meaning that I need to go through each post (and there are a lot) and fix them by hand.

Jekyll also has a lot of handy plug-ins, and one that'd piqued my interest is [Octopod](https://jekyll-octopod.github.io/), which would make it super easy to host my own podcast independently, as I've been thinking of beginning one.

Speaking of, I haven't made a blog post in a few months now, and upped my Beeminder for it so that I'll be required to post one soon. I think I'll write about why I think it's important to not only have your own website, but to host it independently. 

If anything, my motivation for going into web development is trying to de-monopolize the current state of the internet from the handful of large social media platforms (in futility, of course.)

My main reference regarding the design of my new site is [Buster Benson's](https://busterbenson.com), and I particularly find his [visual representation of life](https://busterbenson.com/the-life-of/buster/) to be such a refreshing perspective, and I hope to figure out a way to thoughtfully imitate it. It makes me realize how I shouldn't be rushing things and meditate on how to achieve long, lofty goals. 

But that seems so difficult. I always end up with fifty tabs open, unable to meaningfully collect and organize information--I'm often just flying by the seat of my pants. Not to mention I only find myself being truly productive  when it's very late at night (writing this out at 3am, for example) as much as I would *like* to be a morning person.  

I'm not entirely sure how to Beemind myself out of these little bad habits--to figure out how to systematize a constant mindfulness and intentionality throughout the day. I recognize the importance of consistency yet disregard it so often when my willpower is drained.

One small change I've been doing is switching from podcasts to audiobooks. As interesting as bite-sized content is, it worries me how there are so many amazing books that I've yet to read (or hear, rather). Any suggestions would be super appreciated.  