---
layout: post
title: "Twenty-Four: Apple Pie"
tags: [twenty-fourth-week]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: apple-pie
comment: true
---

**Week Twenty-four!** Another rather uneventful week. I've been working with Python frameworks like Flask and Django recently, and I'm starting to piece together a plan to start an independent project, probably with something like Stripe integration for a simple way to become self-sufficient. It's crazy to me how many prerequisites come with using any sort of framework. It reminds me of a quote from Carl Sagan:

>  If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe. 

Anyways, back to Beeminder. Once thing I've noticed whenever I try to explain the entire concept to people (maybe 'pitch' is a better word), their first question is to ask where the money goes--and they're usually displeased by the answer--Beeminder itself.

Of course, this is absurd if you think about it carefully. I'm not sure why people would approach systems or goal-setting with the generalized or personal notion of failure-by-default. Obviously, it should be the complete opposite! I'm trying to give the *least* amount of money to Beeminder by successfully completing the promises I'm making to myself (excluding the subscription I have, due to being a superuser).

Just a small tangent rant I thought I'd share. I don't really use Beeminder for the punishment consequence anyways, I just like the pretty graphs that are slowly built--like plants in a garden. There are a couple of things (bugabees?) I noticed this week:

* **/photos** kept derailing before, and I thought it was due to delayed updates from IFTTT. Not the case! It actually doesn't track multi-photos (posting multiple photos as one "entry", sort to speak). So if I uploaded photosets, nothing happened. I'm not sure if this is a bug or a feature, since IFTTT doesn't have any options regarding multi-photos, just single photos and videos.
* **/github** sometimes goes up a wild amount. I realized this is because it tracks *all* commits, not just ones on the main branch. It even tracks commits from deleted branches or repositories, so I assume they're cached somewhere?

I don't think either of these are explicitly bugs, just points of interest that you notice when you've had your head stuck in the honey too long. (Too many bee puns?)