---
layout: post
title: "Sixty: Mayday"
tags: [sixtieth-week]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: mayday
comment: true
---

**Week Sixty!** I'm very late this week! I have been feeling pretty lazy, I thought I'd be alright after last entry, but that's not the case I'm afraid. For starters, COVID-19 is surging in my area, and I don't see myself being able to get a vaccine shot for another month or two. 

Anyways, related to Beeminder, I derailed on both **/french** and **/clozemaster** this week, not because I skipped a lesson but because I didn't gain enough XP, which wasn't a big deal to me. 

However, I made the major error of not updating the *Respite* number (also known as days of mercy--how much safety buffer you automatically get after derailing) to 0 from the default of a week. (Because of course I'd forget something like that.)

This meant that the day after I derailed, I completely forgot to practice my French--I didn't realize that I've become accustomed to Beemergency notifications prompting me so heavily--and so I broke my streak on both apps. :'(

For Duolingo, it's not a big deal because they have their cute "streak freeze" capability, however my 250-day streak on Clozemaster was gone completely. 

I know it's not really a big deal, and I just have to start over again, but it really demonstrates how one slip-up leads to another--spiralling downward the same way good work causes a virtuous cycle upward.

Perhaps not coincidentally, I also keep nearly derailing on **/sleep**, due to restlessness and messing up my circadian rhythm, which has also most likely been causing my poor mood.

When I get down like this, it's easy to become disenfranchised with the whole idea of this--that I'm juts drinking the Kool-aid of the [self-help industry](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/01/15/improving-ourselves-to-death), and that the work I've been doing have just been easy busywork to distract me from the more difficult tasks that I've convinced myself aren't Beemindable. 

Although I think it's good to have that kind of self-awareness and criticality, I also realize that I more often than not don't feel this way, and that I *am* just trying my best, and that Beeminder is helping me a lot with that genuinely.

And although I don't think Beeminder is a crutch--as previously discussed in this journal--I do have to wonder if it contributes to an internal or external [locus of control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locus_of_control).
