---
layout: post
title: "Forty-Nine: A Year In"
tags: [forty-ninth-week]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: a-year-in
comment: true
---

**Week Forty-nine!** Missed a week! Or rather, I've already missed a Journal kim entry, but I'm alright with that, since I've been sliding further and further from my weekly deadline of Monday to all the way to Friday! 

By just waiting a few more days, I can essentially just "derail" for a week and re-calibrate myself. Speaking of, I've had a couple of derails since my last entry, in both **/distraction** and **/writing**. 

Not much to update other than that, I'm afraid! It has been an entire year since I've began this Beejournal, starting on February 10th of last year, and I've been wanting to go through all the various things that I've accomplished with the all-mighty help and thanks to Beeminder, but it just feels kinda silly when I'm in such a slump right now?

There's an extreme cold warning in effect where I'm at right now. It's a balmy -33C° right now, and it'll continue to be that for at least another week, so I haven't been able to get out at all, really. 

I try to remind myself of all the important things. Like how any amount of effort and progress, no matter how small, is infinitely better than nothing. Or that action begets action and inaction begets inaction. Or meditate on [the ugly shrub principle](https://wandernotebook.com/how-to-start-off-2020-on-the-right-foot/), but the monkey-weasel of nihilistic hedonism beckons all the same. 

Regardless, I'll still keep this updated. I've been going over other Beejournals to see what formats and talking points I might be able to borrow, and it's a wonder to see how many just abruptly end. I know I'll eventually be able to shake the dust and get my shit together.

On the more logistical side of things, since renewing **journal.kim/** was too expensive, I've instead bought **journal.kim/** and I'm going to be transferring over! I'm sure that most people who read this only read the forum, so it's not a big deal. It's more just a hassle for me to update all of the links, hah.
