---
layout: post
title: "Sixty-one: Longterm"
tags: [sixty-first-week]
author: Brennan Brown
permalink: longterm
comment: true
---

**Week Sixty-one!** Just as late as last week, but that means there's consistency at least, right?

I've been having trouble with **/github** recently (and subsequently, **/learning**), specifically trying to find a new project. Or perhaps more aptly, trying to motivate myself to continue on the projects I've been working on.

One thing I've noticed--that's one of my biggest pain points--is that I cannot plan and then execute. I can do things with reckless abandon and no foresight, sure, which sometimes lets me compile that work into something that's rather large and impressive (this Bee journal, maybe), but overall that's super impractical. 

As soon as I make an actual plan for myself, long-term goals, it all falls apart. The more important and substantial a task is, the more I'll procrastinate and ignore doing it. This is what I need to be working on the most right now.

In better news, it's really exciting people start using my open-source projects for their work! ([1](https://alanparr.github.io/), [2](https://alex-im2.github.io/))

> Sympathising. I think the first time I ragequit Duolingo was a streak breakage, before they allowed you to freeze them. Even though streaks shouldn’t be the end goal, something about having one displayed and then losing it *breaks my brain.
> --[@shanaqui](https://forum.beeminder.com/t/brennans-beeminder-journal/6340/95?u=brennanbrown)


Yes, exactly! I use to be completely demoralized by stuff like this, but thankfully with Beeminder, it doesn't seem to really affect me at all. 

And I really think that's because even if the website says I'm back at 0, I still forever have my Beeminder graph recording my upward progress. I think that's why the whole "don't break the chain" mentality can sometimes be more unhelpful than helpful, and why Beeminder is such a great alternative to it! :D
